---
icon: arrows-repeat
---

# API for Recurring Payment

If you have your own system and wish to integrate it to senangPay for recurring payments you will need to first add your product into senangPay. The product needs to be created first for auditing purposes. Recurring payments is not available for merchants who subscribe with senangPay x Stripe Package.



To start, we will need the information as below. These can be retrieved from the senangPay Dashboard.

1. Go to Menu > Settings > Profile
2. Refer to the Shopping Cart Integration Link section. Get your Merchant ID and Secret Key information.
3. Then you will need to fill in the **Recurring Return URL**. This is the URL where senangPay will redirect the buyer to after the payment has been processed.
4. Next, you need to fill in the Recurring Callback URL. Recurring Callback URL is used as an alternative notification to the merchant shopping cart in case here is a breakdown in the transaction flow. For more info on Callback URL, read [here](https://guide.senangpay.my/callback-url/).



## **Getting the Recurring ID**

Recurring id is the unique id that identifies your recurring product. To obtain the recurring id, you must first create a recurring product in senangPay dashboard.

1\. Go to Menu >Product > Create New

2\. Creating a recurring product. You can learn more on how to create a recurring product here at these links.

* &#x20;[Instalment Product](https://guide.senangpay.my/recurring-payment-instalment/)
* &#x20;[Subscription Product](https://guide.senangpay.my/recurring-payment-subscription/)

3\. Once the recurring product has been created, view the product details page, scroll down to **Payment Frequency Setting** section. The **Recurring Id** is located under Recurring Type.



## **Parameters to send to senangPay**

Below are the details of the elements in the table:

<table><thead><tr><th width="181">Item</th><th>Detail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>order_id</code></td><td><p>Identifies the shopping cart when redirecting after payment. Max 100 characters. </p><ul><li>Allowed: A-Z, a-z, 0-9, and dash ( - )</li><li>Example: 3432D4.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><code>recurring_id</code></td><td>Identifies which recurring product/item senangPay processes.</td></tr><tr><td><code>hash</code></td><td>Ensures data integrity between the merchant’s cart and senangPay. Refer to the ‘How to generate the secure hash’ section for details.</td></tr><tr><td><code>name</code></td><td>Adds the customer's name automatically. It's optional and can be edited.</td></tr><tr><td><code>email</code></td><td>Populates the customer's email for them. Optional and can be modified.</td></tr><tr><td><code>phone</code></td><td>Inserts the customer's phone number. Optional and adjustable by the customer.</td></tr></tbody></table>





{% swagger src="../.gitbook/assets/swagger phase 1.yaml" path="/recurring/payment/{merchantID}" method="post" %}
[swagger phase 1.yaml](<../.gitbook/assets/swagger phase 1.yaml>)
{% endswagger %}

## **What Parameters does the shopping cart receive from senangPay**

Below are the details of the elements in the table:

| Item             | Detail                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `status_id`      | <p>Indicates payment status</p><ul><li>1 for success</li><li>0 for failure</li><li>3 for pending (first recurring payment only)</li></ul>                                   |
| `order_id`       | Identifies the order sent to senangPay, linking the transaction to your application.                                                                                        |
| `msg`            | <p>Describes the payment status. Max 100 characters. Replace underscores with spaces when displaying to customers. </p><ul><li>Example: "Payment_was_successful."</li></ul> |
| `transaction_id` | <p>senangPay's unique transaction ID. Max 100 characters. </p><ul><li>Example: 14363538840. </li></ul><p>Use it to track transactions in senangPay.</p>                     |
| `hash`           | Ensures data integrity from senangPay to your shopping cart. See the ‘How to verify the secure hash’ section for details.                                                   |

## **How senangPay sends the parameters to merchant’s shopping cart**

1\. The parameters will be sent using GET method.

2\. The parameters are sent to URL as configured in the Recurring Return URL. Refer to ‘Info Required’ section



## **How to generate the secure hash**

1\. The secure hash is generated by using sha256 on a string consisting of (according to sequence):

* Secret Key
* Recurring ID
* Order ID

2\. For example if the values for the parameters are as in PHP  shown below :&#x20;



```php

?php
/$secret_key = ‘21245-957’;
$recurring_id = ‘1234’;
$order_id = ’12’;

$hash = hash(‘sha256’,$secret_key.$recurring_id.$order_id);

?>

```

3\. So, the string to be hashed is **21245-957123412,** which will generate the hash values of:

* **a8167dd09f01ebed0b18e67b2cc2424a0d058ccc83d94803482ecdeedff7728f**



## **How to verify if the secure hash is correct**

1\. Merchansts will need to generate the secure hash and compare the secure hash that was received from senangPay.

2\. For example, if the parameters received from senangPay are as in PHP shown below :&#x20;



```php

$status_id = '1';
$order_id = '12';
$transaction_id = '14363538840';
$msg = 'Payment_was_successful';

$hash = hash(‘sha256’,$secret_key.$status_id.$order_id.$transaction_id.$msg);

?>

```

3\. So, the string to be hashed is **21245-95711214363538840Payment\_was\_successful,** which will generate the hash values of:

* **24354422953c29bf4b822f6783bbaf64ef445623d6e8ea4ddc1582a29c03cda0**

4\. Compare the hash value that you have generated with the hash value sent from senangPay. If the value does not match then the data may have been tampered with.

\
\
